# Blockchain-SHA256
Blockchain senior thesis investigating and implementing scaled-down SHA-256 algorithm function

In November and December of 2017, the cryptocurrency known as Bitcoin soared to record-high values, reaching at one point a worth of nearly $20,000/1BTC1. People began investing heavily in Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies alike, creating a global craze. With this recent success, many questions have been brought to the forefront regarding its security. Bitcoin’s security is cemented through its application of Blockchain, which centres around the utilization of the SHA- 256 hashing function. The SHA-256 hash function, although secure in practice, is difficult to comprehend in a step-by-step manner due to its complexity. This paper looks to construct a simplified hash function, operating on 64-bits rather than 256-bits, and to run it through necessary statistical testing to ensure its relative security. Thus, we will look to downscale the set SHA-256 algorithm while still maintaining the functions overall structure. By doing so, we aspire to create an easier to understand version of the SHA-256 function, making it more accessible to the average novice. This kind of downscaling has been previously done for AES (Advanced Encryption Standard) and DES (Data Encryption Standard) and this paper will look to build on that work. This work is relevant, as by understanding the inner-workings of SHA-256 and its features, we will be able to develop more secure hash functions in the future. In the first section of this thesis, we will look at Bitcoin and Blockchain, discussing their structural characteristics. We will also introduce hashing and explore the different avenues in which it is used. In the second section, we will introduce our simplified 64-bit algorithm, and go through an example of the down-scaled SHA-256 function. In the third section, we will place our function through statistical testing, running said function through tests such as the Strict Avalanche Test (SAC) and Collision Test. In section 4, we will summarize our findings and making our final conclusions.
